= pik

http://github.com/vertiginous/pik

Mailing List:  http://groups.google.com/group/discuss_pik

Rubyforge:  http://rubyforge.org/projects/pik/

Bugs/Feature requests:  http://github.com/vertiginous/pik/issues

Gordon Thiesfeld  gthiesfeld@gmail.com

== No longer maintained

Since 2012, maintain and update Pik to keep up with changes associated with RubyInstaller has been
impossible. With main developer gone and limited time availabilty is no longer possible to
update or workout the issues presented.

Since nobody has volunteered to maintain this project, we recommend you look at Uru as alternative:

https://bitbucket.org/jonforums/uru/

== DESCRIPTION:

pik is a tool to manage multiple versions of ruby on Windows.  It can be used from the Windows command line (cmd.exe), Windows PowerShell, or Git Bash.

    C:\>pik help commands

      add             Adds another ruby location to pik.
      benchmark|bench Runs bencmarks with all versions that pik is aware of.
      default         Switches to the default ruby.
      gem             Runs the gem command with all versions that pik is aware of.
      help            Displays help information.
      implode         Removes your pik configuration.
      info            Displays information about the current ruby version.
      install|in      Downloads and installs different ruby versions.
      list|ls         Lists ruby versions that pik is aware of.
      package         Downloads and installs packages.
      rake            Runs the rake command with all versions that pik is aware of.
      refresh         Refreshes the pik configuration file.
      remove|rm       Removes a ruby location from pik.
      ruby|rb         Runs ruby with all versions that pik is aware of.
      run|exec        Executes shell command with all versions of ruby that pik is aware of.
      system          Switches back to initial system environment.
      uninstall|unin  Deletes a ruby version from the filesystem and removes it from pik.
      update|up       updates pik.
      use             Switches ruby versions by name.

    For help on a particular command, use 'pik help COMMAND'.

    
== REQUIREMENTS:

*  Windows

*  Development requirements:

      ruby 1.8.7-p330[http://rubyinstaller.org]

      rake:    gem install rake
      isolate: gem install isolate

      exerb-mingw[http://vert.igino.us/2011/01/05/exerb-101-building-windows-executables-with-ruby/]

      upx[http://upx.sourceforge.net/] (downloaded automatically, as needed)

*  Packaging requirements:
      
      wix 3.5[http://wix.sourceforge.net/] (downloaded automatically, as needed)

      
== INSTALL:
  
You can install pik via rubygems, or the Windows installer, or you can update pik with pik

=== Install pik using rubygems

    >gem install pik
    ...
   
    Successfully installed pik-0.3.0
    1 gem installed

After the gem is installed, you can use the 'pik_install' script to install the pik executable.  Install pik to a location that's in your path, but someplace other than your ruby\bin dir.  For instance, the directory C:\bin is in my path:

    >path
    PATH=c:\bin;C:\Program Files\Windows Resource Kits\Tools\;c:\ruby\Ruby-186-p383\bin;
   
So I run:

    >pik_install C:\bin
    Thank you for using pik.
   
    Installing to C:\bin
     
    ...
     
    pik is installed

=== Install pik using the installer

If you want to install to a machine that doesn't have Ruby installed yet, you can download the latest msi file from github[http://github.com/vertiginous/pik/downloads].

The MSI installer currently doesn't install the needed files to use pik from Git Bash. 

If you install pik using the msi you must set the 'HOME' or 'PIK_HOME' environment variable to the directory pik installs to, ususally the path specified in %USERPROFILE%.

If you want to install to a directory that's not in your path, you can check the box to have the installer add it to the path for you (this will only work if you're an adminstrator).  After that, you should be ready to run pik. 

*  If this is a first-time install, look at pik add, and pik install to set up your environment.
 
    >pik add C:\ruby\IronRuby-091\bin
    Adding:  091: IronRuby 0.9.1.0 on .NET 2.0.0.0
     Located at:  C:/ruby/IronRuby-091/bin
    
    >pik install ruby
    ** Downloading:  http://rubyforge.org/frs/download.php/66874/ruby-1.9.1-p243-i386-mingw32-rc1.7z
       to:  c:\installs\ruby-1.9.1-p243-i386-mingw32-rc1.7z
    
    ...

     
== MORE INFORMATION:

See the wiki for examples and documentation.  If something isn't documented correctly or at all, feel free to fix it yourself, or let me know.

== LICENSE:

(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2010 Gordon Thiesfeld

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
